iac-for-aws-resources poster (#6)
reichlab/decisions: project-posters/iac-for-aws-resources/iac-for-aws-resources.md

- updating is tedious and error-prone
- is only understood by one or two lab members
- there is no centralized documentation that enumerates the resources and how to manage them
- likely could be cleaned up (e.g., removing the security group's inbound SSH/22 rule), but doing so could break other resources

This situation will only become worse in light of upcoming technical staff decreases.

## Project goal

Our goal is to:
1. enumerate [Possible solutions](#possible-solutions) to implementing a documented way to enumerate and manage AWS resources (ideally one that generates a log or trail of changes over time),
2. [evaluate and choose](#evaluation-approach) the best that meets our needs, and
3. implement that choice

## Possible solutions

So far we envision these possible solutions:

- keep using the AWS console to create and update cloud resources; create documentation about what each component is used for, including a changelog
  - pros: already familiar with the solution

>   - cons: high learning curve for new people. not automated/reproducible. making resource changes requires updating docs

Reviewer: related to "not automated/reproducible," I'd add that there's no detailed changelog for this solution

- a script that creates resources via AWS CLI or API
  - pros: simpler than a full on IaC solution 

>   - cons: script must explicitly manage things like renaming resources, deleting existing ones if script is run from scratch, etc. (a full on IaC solution does these for you)

Reviewer: If "explicitly managing things" is a con, is it fair to say that "simplicity vs IaC is a pro?"

Maybe it's more like....pro = a lower learning curve for getting started and/or a faster time to implementation if the number of AWS resources is low?

Another example of things that a script needs to explicitly manage is dependencies...for example, making sure an AWS bucket is created prior to the IAM role that references it. IaC handles all that too.

- full on IaC solution such as https://www.pulumi.com/ or an AWS-based one (there seems to be many - see https://aws.amazon.com/what-is/iac/ )
  - pros: takes care of creating, updating, tracking changes, etc. could be consistent with Hubverse-based IaC solution

>   - cons: steep learning curve. relies on third party solution. possibly expensive

Reviewer: > possibly expensive

Thanks for calling this out! Cost is an important consideration, but I think we need some ballpark numbers to understand how much it should factor into the decision. 

It's hard to imagine running up a large bill given our small size and our open-source project status.

For reference, here's the [pricing info for AWS CloudFormation](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/pricing/)...the free tier gives you up to 1000 resource operations (e.g., CREATE, UPDATE, READ, LIST) per month.

For Pulumi, we could likely add another project to our existing open-source Team license. Even the free version of Pulumi allows you to manage up to 200 resources: https://www.pulumi.com/pricing/

## Evaluation approach

Once we've enumerated possible solutions then we will evaluate them to choose the best for us. The choice should balance:

- features (must meet our needs)
- learning curve (solutions that leverage lab experience are better)
- cost (lower cost solutions are better)
- understandability to lab members (more understandable solutions are better)

After that we will implement the chosen solution by creating a working infrastructure to "dry run" our [flu_ar2](https://github.com/reichlab/operational-models/tree/main/flu_ar2) model and then judging how it went, both process and end product.

## Current infrastructure

(Given that our current AWS infrastructure is undocumented, we capture it here for reference.)

> ![aws-diagram.jpg](aws-diagram.jpg) gives an overview of the AWS resources currently used to run our models.

Reviewer 2: A minor point, but I found the diagram difficult to read, so I attempted to translate it into a mermaid diagram using [the mermaid live editor](https://mermaid.live/edit#pako:eNp1U8FuozAQ_ZWRT61U9rC55VCpgRxW2pUqQBtpQw8TPIBVY1vG7m7V9N93CElKK8HJ7_nNvDe2eRO1lSTWotH2b92hD_AzrwzwN8RD69F1gM5NjHXkMShrUCc9l-lh4snILyWqx5aWipLk_iht_UweDlFpeQbJrGjOwEzv4tAdoYuH5EwsBXjYFRNTZvtK7Ldp8QQlDs-QUaOMGvPAzffbSjxNsnTHslTbKHcY6g60baH1NrpPqm3Oqu0_qqM_dcitJrj58fDrQ1KsWFKs4BuZF2jUuD9rUGY8zEf8GZnuYIaK1Qxs86UpKzHUHcmoSYKPphLnmJsx5guZABuvJB9hcZZ9nmYzniwr0wIceuyHShzLbNms1nEI5JVp4fdjenVLi_3UJJ32vxgE9C2FIwtmLNfDslGPJqKej5SX7HG6QEkN3PM1Om1feZFHA4H5q2lecvvLFCdwdT6hMfnFWNyJnnyPSvIf8DbSlQgd9VSJNS_ZCqMOY4Z3lmIMtng1tVgHH-lO8PNoO7FuUA-MopMYKFPIQ_RX1qH5Y-0Fv_8HjqASWQ). That being said, my translation is probably incorrect because I am not familiar with the setup. 

````suggestion
Here is an overview of the AWS resources currently used to run our models:

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph app
    operational-models
    end
    subgraph image
    operational-models-->|docker build|docker-image
    docker-image -->|docker push| hub-docker 
    end
    subgraph AWS
    TD["[ECS] Task Definition (2)"]
    CW["CloudWatch log group (2)"]
    ER["Execurtion Role (IAM)"]
    S3["S3 .env file (2)"]
    TD-->hub-docker
    TD-->CW 
    TD-->S3
    TD-->ER
    end
    subgraph "scheduled run"
    EB["Event Bridge Schedule (2)"]
    EB-->|"ECS params"|TD
    end
    subgraph "clustering VPC"
    ECS["ECS Cluster"]
    EB-->|target|ECS
    EB-->VPC 
    end
    subgraph "manual run"
    RT["Task def > Deploy > Run task"]
    RT-->TD
    RT-->ECS
    RT-->VPC
    end
```
````

It will render to look like this:

```mermaid
flowchart LR
    subgraph app
    operational-models
    end
    subgraph image
    operational-models-->|docker build|docker-image
    docker-image -->|docker push| hub-docker 
    end
    subgraph AWS
    TD["[ECS] Task Definition (2)"]
    CW["CloudWatch log group (2)"]
    ER["Execurtion Role (IAM)"]
    S3["S3 .env file (2)"]
    TD-->hub-docker
    TD-->CW 
    TD-->S3
    TD-->ER
    end
    subgraph "scheduled run"
    EB["Event Bridge Schedule (2)"]
    EB-->|"ECS params"|TD
    end
    subgraph "clustering VPC"
    ECS["ECS Cluster"]
    EB-->|target|ECS
    EB-->VPC 
    end
    subgraph "manual run"
    RT["Task def > Deploy > Run task"]
    RT-->TD
    RT-->ECS
    RT-->VPC
    end
```

Reviewer 2: ugh this was supposed to be a comment, not an approval, sorry. I don't have enough context to explicitly approve.
